{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Tahoma;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2510;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\lang1031\b\f0\fs16 SOFTWARE LICENSE AND WARRANTY\par
\b0\par
Read this agreement carefully. If you do not agree to its terms, abort the installation by clicking the Cancel button.\par
\par
The software which accompanies this license agreement (the "Software") is the property of SoftMaker Software GmbH ("SoftMaker") or its licensors and is protected by copyright law. While SoftMaker continues to own the Software, you will have certain rights to use the Software after your acceptance of this license agreement. Except as may be modified by a license addendum which accompanies this license agreement, the following is agreed upon between you and SoftMaker:\par
\par
\par
\b DEFINITIONS\par
\b0\par
A. \b Non-commercial user:\b0  A licensee who is a natural person and does not use the Software for for-profit purposes.\par
\par
B. \b Commercial user:\b0  A licensee who is not a natural person and/or uses the Software for for-profit purposes.\par
\par
C. \b Computer:\b0  A hardware system (either physical or virtual) capable of running the Software. A blade as part of a blade server, or a hardware partition is considered a separate Computer. When using the Software via remote access, the device through which the user interacts with the Software is considered a Computer.\par
\par
\par
\b GRANT OF RIGHTS TO NON-COMMERCIAL USERS\par
\b0\par
If you are a \b non-commercial user\b0 , you and members of your family may install and use one license of the Software on up to \b 5 (five) Computers\b0  simultaneously, so long as all of these Computers belong to the same household.\par
\par
\par
\b GRANT OF RIGHTS TO COMMERCIAL USERS\par
\b0\par
If you are a \b commercial user\b0 , you may use the Software either under a \b computer license\b0  or under a \b user license\b0 :\par
\par
\b A. Computer license\par
\b0\par
1. Each license may only be installed and used on \b one (1) Computer\b0 .\par
\par
2. Every user of that Computer may use the Software, but only \b 1 (one) user\b0  at any given time.\par
\par
3. Secondary use right: The single primary user of that Computer is additionally entitled to use the Software on a portable computer.\par
\par
\b B. User license\b0\par
\par
Each license may be installed and used by \b one (1) user\b0  on up to five Computers. The use of the Software by other persons is not permitted.\par
\par
\par
\b TERM OF USAGE\b0\par
\par
If you have licensed the Software through a \b subscription\b0 , your right to use the Software is limited to the subscription period. You may have the option to renew your subscription. If you renew your subscription, you may continue to use the Software until the end of your extended subscription period. After the subscription expires, you will not be able to use the Software.\par
\par
If you have licensed the Software by \b purchasing a permanent license\b0 , you are entitled to use the licensed version of the Software for an unlimited period of time.\par
\par
\par
\b LICENSE VERIFICATION\b0\par
\par
When the Software is used on a Computer for the first time, and when certain changes are made to the hardware of a Computer, and in some license models from time to time, the Software establishes an Internet connection with a SoftMaker license server to verify the validity of the license. If you do not have a valid license, the Software cannot be used.\par
\par
\par
\b ADDITIONAL RIGHTS\b0\par
\par
All users have the right to:\par
\par
1. Make a reasonable number of backup copies for archive purposes, so long as the backup copies are not distributed; and\par
\par
2. Transfer the usage rights in the Software on a permanent basis to another person or entity, provided that you retain no copies of the Software and the transferee agrees to the terms of this agreement;\par
\par
\par
\b YOU MAY NOT:\par
\b0\par
1. Make copies of the accompanying documentation;\par
\par
2. Sublicense, rent or lease any portion of the Software or accompanying documentation; or\par
\par
3. Reverse-engineer, decompile, dissassemble, modify, translate, make any attempt to discover the source code of the Software, or create derivative works of the Software.\par
\par
\par
\b LIMITED WARRANTY\par
\b0\par
TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, SOFTMAKER DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND ALL SUCH WARRANTIES ARE EXPRESSLY AND SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMED. NEITHER SOFTMAKER NOR ANYONE ELSE WHO HAS BEEN INVOLVED IN THE CREATION, PRODUCTION, OR DELIVERY OF THIS SOFTWARE SHALL BE LIABLE FOR ANY INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE SUCH SOFTWARE EVEN IF SOFTMAKER HAS BEEN ADVISED OF POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES OR CLAIMS. IN NO EVENT SHALL SOFTMAKER'S LIABILITY FOR ANY DAMAGES EVER EXCEED THE PRICE PAID FOR LICENSE TO USE THE SOFTWARE, REGARDLESS OF THE FORM OF QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE SOFTWARE. THE PERSON USING THE SOFTWARE BEARS ALL RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE SOFTWARE.\par
\par
\par
\b GENERAL\par
\b0\par
This Agreement is the complete statement of the Agreement between the parties on the subject matter, and merges and supersedes all other or prior understandings, purchase orders, agreements and arrangements. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany. Exclusive jurisdiction and venue for all matters relating to this Agreement shall be in courts located in the City of N\'fcrnberg, Germany, and you consent to such jurisdiction and venue, thereby excluding the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods and any legislation implementing such Convention, if otherwise applicable.\par
\par
If any provision of this Agreement is declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable, such a provision shall be severed from the Agreement and the other provisions shall remain in full force and effect.\par
\par
All rights of any kind in the Software which are not expressly granted in this License are entirely and exclusively reserved to and by SoftMaker.\par
\par
}
c